\input texinfo
@setfilename manual
@settitle s21_SmartCalc_v1.0
@documentencoding UTF-8

@copying
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Short guide to using the calculator.
@vskip 
@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top S21_SmartCalc_v1.0
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* General information:: This section provides common information on the principle of operation of calculator.
* Arithmetic operations:: This section provides information about the list of implemented arithmetic operations
* Math function:: This section provides information about the list of implemented mathematical functions.
* Charts:: This section provides information about the possibility of plotting functions.
@end menu

@node General information
@chapter General information

The calculator is developed in the C/C++ programming language using the QT Creator version 6.2.
The main principle of calculations is implemented on the basis of Dijkstra's algorithm, the essence of which is to convert mathematical expressions from infix notation to reverse Polish notation.

@node  Arithmetic operations
@chapter  Arithmetic operations

The following arithmetic operations are implemented in the calculator:
@enumerate
@item
Addition - a + b
@item
Subtraction - a - b
@item
Multiplication - a * b
@item
Division - a / b
@item
Power - a ^ b
@item
Remainder of the division - a mod b
@item
Unary plus - +a
@item
Unary minus - -a
@item
To enter complex expressions use left and right brackets - (a)
@end enumerate
You can specify a complex mathematical expression using the constant X.
Enter the expression, click "=" and get the answer.

@node Math function
@chapter Math function

The following mathematical functions are implemented in the calculator:
@enumerate
@item
Computes cosine - cos(x)
@item
Computes sine - sin(x)
@item
Computes tangent - tan(x)
@item
Computes arc cosine - acos(x)
@item
Computes arc sine - asin(x)
@item
Computes arc tangent - atan(x)
@item
Computes square root - sqrt(x)
@item
Computes natural logarithm - ln(x)
@item
Computes common logarithm - log(x)
@end enumerate
Enter the expression, click "=" and get the answer.

@node Charts
@chapter Charts

The calculator implements the possibility of plotting functions.
In order to build a graph, it is necessary that the constant "X" is present in the expression.
Enter the expression, click the "Graph" button.
There is also a button to automatically determine the display area.

The scope of definition and the scope of function значения are limited to at least numbers from -1000000 to 1000000.

@bye
